README.md, before:

# todoist-morph  [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/briankaemingk/todoist-morph/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/briankaemingk/todoist-morph)
Enhancements to native behavior in todoist to improve motivation, focus, and flow.

## Improve Focus

### Just-In-Time Tasking
If you use todoist as your trusted system, then you inevitably have hundreds of tasks in your backlog at a given moment. How do you decide which of these tasks to do at a particular moment? 

JIT Tasking automates backlog filtering to only reveal tasks at the precise time, location, and context when they are actionable.

### Useage

JIT Tasking only shows you tasks when you are able to complete them. It accomplishes this through a combination of filtering and todoist api changes that run in the background.

1. Add a task scheduled for a particular day and time that you need to complete on that day, but aren't able to do them until a certain time. For example, let's say you need to make a personal phone call, but you don't want to make the call until after your shift at work ends at 6PM. Add that task in Todoist as `Call dad about birthday party` and set the due date as `today 6pm`.

2. Instead of looking at the default Today view in Todoist, look at a filter you will create called `Todo (Level 1)` which will hide this time-specific task until 6PM when you are able to do it. TODO: Automate filter creation

3. When 6PM rolls around, the due date for the task will be automatically changed to all-day today, and the task will automatically appear in your `Todo (Level 1)` filter.

## Improve Motivation -- Implemented but currently not integrated

TODO: Integrate the below functionality

An automation to enable habit tracking in todoist. 

It integrates Seinfield's "[Don't Break the Chain](https://lifehacker.com/281626/jerry-seinfelds-productivity-secret)" method into [todoist](http://todoist.com/). Once it's setup, you can forget about it and it works seamlessly.

This is a different flavor of the originally implemented [habitist](https://github.com/amitness/habitist). While habitist is focused on daily habits, habitist (streak) can be applied to habits of any recurrence time-frames (daily, weekly, monthly, etc).

## Useage

1. You add habits you want to form as task on todoist with a recurring schedule (could be any recurrence pattern (`every day`, `every week` or `every year`, for example)

2. Add `[streak 0]` to the task

3. When you complete the task, the `[streak 0]` will become `[streak 1]`

4. If you fail to complete the task and it becomes overdue, the script will schedule it to today and reset `[streak X]` to `[streak 0]`.

## Installation

1. Fork and clone the repo
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/yourgithubusername/todoist-morph
    ```
2. Create a heroku app.
    ```
    heroku create appname
    ```
3. Set environment variable with your todost API key. You'll find API key under `Settings > Integrations` on [todoist.com](https://todoist.com).
    ```
     heroku config:set TODOIST_APIKEY='XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'
    ``` 

4. Push the app
    ```
    git push heroku master
    ```
 
5. On [IFTTT](http://ifttt.com/), [create](https://ifttt.com/create) a new applet. 
    - On THIS, select datetime > 'Every Hour At' > ':00' 
    - On THAT, select Webhooks > Make a web request
    - Set URL to your heroku app URL:
    ```
    https://your-todoist-morph-app-name.herokuapp.com/
    ```
    - Set METHOD to GET
    - Hit Create Action
    - If you want this app to run more frequently than once an hour, at a maximum of ever 15 minutes, then repeat the above steps, creating applets that run at `:15` and `:30` and `:45` minutes past the hour.
    
6. Create the `Todo (Level 1) filter` in Todoist
    - Open Todoist and create a new filter 
    - In NAME, enter `Todo (Level 1)`
    - In QUERY, enter `due after: tod 23:59 & due before: tom 00:00`

7. Add a task to test it out. See the [Just-In-Time Tasking](#just-in-time-tasking) useage section for ideas.
    
 [![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

Adding docs for recurrence snoozing

README.md, after:

# todoist-morph  [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/briankaemingk/todoist-morph/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/briankaemingk/todoist-morph)
Enhancements to native behavior in todoist to improve motivation, focus, and flow.

## Improve Focus

### Just-In-Time Tasking
If you use todoist as your trusted system, then you inevitably have hundreds of tasks in your backlog at a given moment. How do you decide which of these tasks to do at a particular moment? 

JIT Tasking automates backlog filtering to only reveal tasks at the precise time, location, and context when they are actionable.

### Useage

JIT Tasking only shows you tasks when you are able to complete them. It accomplishes this through a combination of filtering and todoist api changes that run in the background.

1. Add a task scheduled for a particular day and time that you need to complete on that day, but aren't able to do them until a certain time. For example, let's say you need to make a personal phone call, but you don't want to make the call until after your shift at work ends at 6PM. Add that task in Todoist as `Call dad about birthday party` and set the due date as `today 6pm`.

2. Instead of looking at the default Today view in Todoist, look at a filter you will create called `Todo (Level 1)` which will hide this time-specific task until 6PM when you are able to do it. TODO: Automate filter creation

3. When 6PM rolls around, the due date for the task will be automatically changed to all-day today, and the task will automatically appear in your `Todo (Level 1)` filter.

### Recurrence Task Recheduling

Sometimes, your schedule requires you to postpone or reschedule repeating tasks. How do you properly postpone or reschedule a recurring task to a date *and time* outside of the regular recurrence?

Recurrence scheduling allows you to postpone or reschedule a recurring task to a specific date *and time* while keeping the task recurrence in-tact.

### Usage

1. First off, if you need to only change the day of a recurrence, but not the time, you can do that with Todoist: to postpone a recurring task, use the [task scheduler](https://support.todoist.com/hc/articles/205325931) by right-clicking (Web, Windows, macOS) or swiping left (iOS, Android) and pick a new date from there

2. If you need to not only change the day of the recurrence, but also the time, first add the time you want to reschedule the task to in the task as `<12:00>` or just `<>` if you want to change it to an all-day task

3. Next, assuming you want to change the date as well, use the [task scheduler](https://support.todoist.com/hc/articles/205325931) by right-clicking (Web, Windows, macOS) or swiping left (iOS, Android) and pick a new date from there

4. Todoist will move the task to the particular day you re-schedule it to and in the background, todoist-morph re-schedules your task to your desired time then removes the inputted time from the task description

## Improve Motivation -- Implemented but currently not integrated

TODO: Integrate the below functionality

An automation to enable habit tracking in todoist. 

It integrates Seinfield's "[Don't Break the Chain](https://lifehacker.com/281626/jerry-seinfelds-productivity-secret)" method into [todoist](http://todoist.com/). Once it's setup, you can forget about it and it works seamlessly.

This is a different flavor of the originally implemented [habitist](https://github.com/amitness/habitist). While habitist is focused on daily habits, habitist (streak) can be applied to habits of any recurrence time-frames (daily, weekly, monthly, etc).

## Useage

1. You add habits you want to form as task on todoist with a recurring schedule (could be any recurrence pattern (`every day`, `every week` or `every year`, for example)

2. Add `[streak 0]` to the task

3. When you complete the task, the `[streak 0]` will become `[streak 1]`

4. If you fail to complete the task and it becomes overdue, the script will schedule it to today and reset `[streak X]` to `[streak 0]`.

## Installation

1. Fork and clone the repo
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/yourgithubusername/todoist-morph
    ```
2. Create a heroku app.
    ```
    heroku create appname
    ```
3. Set environment variable with your todost API key. You'll find API key under `Settings > Integrations` on [todoist.com](https://todoist.com).
    ```
     heroku config:set TODOIST_APIKEY='XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'
    ``` 

4. Push the app
    ```
    git push heroku master
    ```
 
5. On [IFTTT](http://ifttt.com/), [create](https://ifttt.com/create) a new applet. 
    - On THIS, select datetime > 'Every Hour At' > ':00' 
    - On THAT, select Webhooks > Make a web request
    - Set URL to your heroku app URL:
    ```
    https://your-todoist-morph-app-name.herokuapp.com/
    ```
    - Set METHOD to GET
    - Hit Create Action
    - If you want this app to run more frequently than once an hour, at a maximum of ever 15 minutes, then repeat the above steps, creating applets that run at `:15` and `:30` and `:45` minutes past the hour.
    
6. Create the `Todo (Level 1) filter` in Todoist
    - Open Todoist and create a new filter 
    - In NAME, enter `Todo (Level 1)`
    - In QUERY, enter `due after: tod 23:59 & due before: tom 00:00`

7. Add a task to test it out. See the [Just-In-Time Tasking](#just-in-time-tasking) useage section for ideas.
    
 [![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
